r[items.associated]
# Associated Items

r[items.associated.syntax]
```grammar,items
AssociatedItem -> ConstantItem | Function 
```

r[items.associated.intro]
*Associated Items* are the items declared in [traits] or defined in
[implementations]. They are called this because they are defined on an associate
type &mdash; the type in the implementation.

r[items.associated.kinds]
They are a subset of the kinds of items you can declare in a module.
Specifically, there are [associated functions] (including methods), [associated types], and [associated constants].

[associated functions]: #associated-functions-and-methods
[associated types]: #associated-types
[associated constants]: #associated-constants

r[items.associated.related]
Associated items are useful when the associated item is logically related to the
associating item. For example, the `is_some` method on `Option` is intrinsically
related to Options, so should be associated.

r[items.associated.decl-def]
Every associated item kind comes in two varieties: definitions that contain the
actual implementation and declarations that declare signatures for
definitions.

r[items.associated.trait-items]
It is the declarations that make up the contract of traits and what is available
on generic types.

r[items.associated.fn]
## Associated functions and methods

r[items.associated.fn.intro]
*Associated functions* are [functions] associated with a type.

r[items.associated.fn.decl]
An *associated function declaration* declares a signature for an associated
function definition. It is written as a function item, except the
function body is replaced with a `;`.

r[items.associated.name]
The identifier is the name of the function.

r[items.associated.same-signature]
The generics, parameter list, return type, and where clause of the associated function must be the same as the
associated function declarations's.

r[items.associated.fn.def]
An *associated function definition* defines a function associated with another
type. It is written the same as a [function item].

> [!NOTE]
> A common example is an associated function named `new` that returns a value of the type with which it is associated.

```rust
struct Struct {
    field: i32
}

impl Struct {
    fn new() -> Struct {
        Struct {
            field: 0i32
        }
    }
}

fn main () {
    let _struct = Struct::new();
}
```

r[items.associated.fn.qualified-self]
When the associated function is declared on a trait, the function can also be
called with a [path] that is a path to the trait appended by the name of the
trait. When this happens, it is substituted for `<_ as Trait>::function_name`.

```rust
trait Num {
    fn from_i32(n: i32) -> Self;
}

impl Num for f64 {
    fn from_i32(n: i32) -> f64 { n as f64 }
}

// These 4 are all equivalent in this case.
let _: f64 = Num::from_i32(42);
let _: f64 = <_ as Num>::from_i32(42);
let _: f64 = <f64 as Num>::from_i32(42);
let _: f64 = f64::from_i32(42);
```

r[items.associated.fn.method]
### Methods

r[items.associated.fn.method.intro]
Associated functions whose first parameter is named `self` are called *methods*
and may be invoked using the [method call operator], for example, `x.foo()`, as
well as the usual function call notation.

r[items.associated.fn.method.self-ty]
If the type of the `self` parameter is specified, it is limited to types resolving
to one generated by the following grammar (where `'lt` denotes some arbitrary
lifetime):

```text
P = &S | &mut S | Box<S> | Rc<S> | Arc<S> | Pin<P>
S = Self | P
```

The `Self` terminal in this grammar denotes a type resolving to the implementing type.
This can also include the contextual type alias `Self`, other type aliases,
or associated type projections resolving to the implementing type.

```rust
# use std::rc::Rc;
# use std::sync::Arc;
# use std::pin::Pin;
// Examples of methods implemented on struct `Example`.
struct Example;
type Alias = Example;
trait Trait { type Output; }
impl Trait for Example { type Output = Example; }
impl Example {
    fn by_value(self: Self) {}
    fn by_ref(self: &Self) {}
    fn by_ref_mut(self: &mut Self) {}
    fn by_box(self: Box<Self>) {}
    fn by_rc(self: Rc<Self>) {}
    fn by_arc(self: Arc<Self>) {}
    fn by_pin(self: Pin<&Self>) {}
    fn explicit_type(self: Arc<Example>) {}
}
```

r[associated.fn.method.self-pat-shorthands]
Shorthand syntax can be used without specifying a type, which have the
following equivalents:

Shorthand             | Equivalent
----------------------|-----------
`self`                | `self: Self`
`&self`     | `self: &Self`
`&mut self` | `self: &mut Self`

> [!NOTE]
> Lifetimes can be, and usually are, elided with this shorthand.

r[associated.fn.method.self-pat-mut]
If the `self` parameter is prefixed with `mut`, it becomes a mutable variable,
similar to regular parameters using a `mut` [identifier pattern]. For example:

```rust
trait Changer: Sized {
    fn change(mut self) {}
    fn modify(mut self: Box<Self>) {}
}
```

As an example of methods on a trait, consider the following:

```rust
# type Surface = i32;
# type BoundingBox = i32;
trait Shape {
    fn draw(&self, surface: Surface);
    fn bounding_box(&self) -> BoundingBox;
}
```

This defines a trait with two methods. All values that have [implementations]
of this trait while the trait is in scope can have their `draw` and
`bounding_box` methods called.

```rust
# type Surface = i32;
# type BoundingBox = i32;
# trait Shape {
#     fn draw(&self, surface: Surface);
#     fn bounding_box(&self) -> BoundingBox;
# }
#
struct Circle {
    // ...
}

impl Shape for Circle {
    // ...
#   fn draw(&self, _: Surface) {}
#   fn bounding_box(&self) -> BoundingBox { 0i32 }
}

# impl Circle {
#     fn new() -> Circle { Circle{} }
# }
#
let circle_shape = Circle::new();
let bounding_box = circle_shape.bounding_box();
```

r[items.associated.const]
## Associated Constants

r[items.associated.const.intro]
*Associated constants* are [constants] associated with a type.

r[items.associated.const.decl]
An *associated constant declaration* declares a signature for associated
constant definitions. It is written as `const`, then an identifier,
then `:`, then a type, finished by a `;`.

r[items.associated.const.name]
The identifier is the name of the constant used in the path. The type is the
type that the definition has to implement.

r[items.associated.const.def]
An *associated constant definition* defines a constant associated with a
type. It is written the same as a [constant item].

r[items.associated.const.eval]
Associated constant definitions undergo [constant evaluation] only when
referenced. Further, definitions that include [generic parameters] are
evaluated after monomorphization.

```rust,compile_fail
struct Struct;
struct GenericStruct<const ID: i32>;

impl Struct {
    // Definition not immediately evaluated
    const PANIC: () = panic!("compile-time panic");
}

impl<const ID: i32> GenericStruct<ID> {
    // Definition not immediately evaluated
    const NON_ZERO: () = if ID == 0 {
        panic!("contradiction")
    };
}

fn main() {
    // Referencing Struct::PANIC causes compilation error
    let _ = Struct::PANIC;

    // Fine, ID is not 0
    let _ = GenericStruct::<1>::NON_ZERO;

    // Compilation error from evaluating NON_ZERO with ID=0
    let _ = GenericStruct::<0>::NON_ZERO;
}
```

### Associated Constants Examples

A basic example:

```rust
trait ConstantId {
    const ID: i32;
}

struct Struct;

impl ConstantId for Struct {
    const ID: i32 = 1;
}

fn main() {
    assert_eq!(1, Struct::ID);
}
```

Using default values:

```rust
trait ConstantIdDefault {
    const ID: i32 = 1;
}

struct Struct;
struct OtherStruct;

impl ConstantIdDefault for Struct {}

impl ConstantIdDefault for OtherStruct {
    const ID: i32 = 5;
}

fn main() {
    assert_eq!(1, Struct::ID);
    assert_eq!(5, OtherStruct::ID);
}
```

[`Arc<Self>`]: ../special-types-and-traits.md#arct
[`Box<Self>`]: ../special-types-and-traits.md#boxt
[`Pin<P>`]: ../special-types-and-traits.md#pinp
[`Rc<Self>`]: ../special-types-and-traits.md#rct
[`Sized`]: ../special-types-and-traits.md#sized
[traits]: traits.md
[type aliases]: type-aliases.md
[inherent implementations]: implementations.md#inherent-implementations
[identifier]: ../identifiers.md
[identifier pattern]: ../patterns.md#identifier-patterns
[implementations]: implementations.md
[type]: ../types.md#type-expressions
[constants]: constant-items.md
[constant item]: constant-items.md
[functions]: functions.md
[function item]: ../types/function-item.md
[method call operator]: ../expressions/method-call-expr.md
[path]: ../paths.md
[regular function parameters]: functions.md#attributes-on-function-parameters
[generic parameters]: generics.md
[where clauses]: generics.md#where-clauses
[constant evaluation]: ../const_eval.md
